# Commit Rules

### **Commit Related Changes**

A commit should be a wrapper for related changes. For example, fixing two different bugs should produce two separate
commits. Small commits make it easier for other developers to understand the changes and roll them back if something
went wrong.

### **Commit Often**

Committing often keeps your commits small and, again, helps you commit only related changes. That way it‘s easier for
everyone to integrate changes regularly and avoid having merge conflicts. Having large commits and sharing them
infrequently, in contrast, makes it hard to solve conflicts.

### **Don't Commit Half-Done Work**

You should only commit code when a logical component is completed. Split a feature‘s implementation into logical chunks
that can be completed quickly so that you can commit often.

### **Test Your Code Before You Commit**

Resist the temptation to commit something that you «think» is completed. Test it thoroughly to make sure it really is
completed, compiling successfully and has no side effects .

### **Use Branches**

Branches are the perfect tool to help you avoid mixing up different lines of development. You should use branches
extensively in your development workflows: for new features, bug fixes, etc.

### **Write Good Commit Messages**

Commit message should be a short summary of your changes (up to 50 characters as a guideline). Use the imperative,
present tense («change», not «changed» or «changes») to be consistent with generated messages from commands like git
merge.

### Start Message With Task Type

Start of the message should be self explanatory whether you’re working on a new feature or bug fixes or something else
i.e., feat, fix, etc. Actual message should start after colon `:`.

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| feat | This essentially represents that your commit will add a feature. |
| fix | This represents that your commit will fix a bug. |
| chores | This represents that your commit is doing some project structure related work. |
| docs | Documentation only changes. |
| test | Add missing tests. |
| refactor | A code change that neither fixes a bug or adds a feature. |
| perf | A code change that improves performance. |

### Include Task/Story/JIRA Id/Ticket Number In Commit Messages

Unique task ids or ticket numbers should be included in commit messages. It helps in tracking the task history as well
as in linking the tasks to workflows provided by JIRA and other platforms. It should be specified inside closed
parenthesis `()`, after the task type and before the colon (:) i.e., feat(ID-02), fix(iD-20), etc. If id is not
available, just use `*` i.e., feat(*), fix(*), etc.

> Create a ticket for every task you want to do, even if it is as simple as changing the text color and make commit per task if possible. It is easy to back-track things this way.
>

### **Formatting Rules**

- Capitalized, short **(50 chars or less)** summary or title
- Write your commit message in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug." This convention matches up
  with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.
- Start message with feature types i.e., feat, fix, etc.
- Include unique task/story/JIRA ids if available, otherwise just use `*`

### **Examples**

- feat(ID-02): Integrate login API with success & failure handling
- fix(ID-20): Fix the incorrect login message showing on submit action
- fix(*): Fix the minor issues
- refactor(*): Split the bigger methods into small and reusable methods
- perf(*): Implement multi threading for quick response